Let's Mock some dependencies
in this exercise,
starting with lab test-mock start,
we get a project our
familiar /expense-service/
which has 3 files.
So the one is Expense,
which is a data object model.
The ExpenseResource is the rest web
service and the ExpenseService is
the data access class.
We also have 2 test classes already.
But we still need a mock to
replace the external dependency,
which is the database.
So we are going to create a very
simple mock by editing the src/test/
java/org/acme/rest/
json/ExpenseServiceMock.
We are going to annotate it with @Mock and
make it extend the ExpenseService.
And we are just going to override
the creating an empty update method
and creating an exists method implementation
which always checks for the same uuid
and if it is the uuid that we are getting,
it just returns a true.
Trying to run the test,
of course will fail because
we are not really using any mocks yet.
So we have got a failure
in the Postgres code.
We've got a failure in a NullPointerException
in the ExpenseServiceTest.
So 2 tests, 2 failures,
really bad situation.
Now, let's fix the ExpenseResourceTest.
First of all, we are
going to import Mockito.
And we are going to add a
mock for ExpenseService.
We are going to specify that whenever
the expenseService's mock is invoked with
exists method and a
Uuid that is notFound,
then we return false.
So this is in a prescribed
behavior for the mock.
Then adding to the existing
expenseResourceNotFound field,
which is initialized with
a new ExpenseResource,
we will simply reset the
expenseService to be the Mock.
So to start using the mock,
we have created a couple of
lines before. Running the test,
we will now see that
the failure is due to not having
added Mockito to our pom.xml.
So that's something we will have to do,
prior to the test working.
Just adding a quarkus-junit5-mockito
dependency in the test scope,
we are running the test, actually
does bring some great results.
This time around the ExpenseResourceTest succeeds.
Of course, the ExpenseServiceTest still fails because
still depends on the
database which is not found.
So what we are going to
do is edit that one too.
We are going to import Mockito as well,
but additionally, we are going
to add the PanacheMock,
which is capable of mocking
the DAO, so data access objects
code or functionality actually.
And we are going to configure
PanacheMock with behavior
which whenever someone deletes
the uuid within existing match,
so with the pre-configured match,
this is the UUID that
we are matching against.
Then we return 1 deleted record.
If they try to delete the
UUID that does not match,
then we will just not return anything.
That is the mocked desired behavior,
now, the second desired behavior
obviously is when we try to
delete a uuid that does not exist,
we will return a 0.
Right? So these 2 bits
of mock prescription,
prescribed behaviors were added
to the ExpenseServiceTest.
Now if we try to test again,
you see that both tests have succeeded.
Also in the ExpenseServiceTest,
we have a set of succeeding tests,
after all. Now we just need to clean up
after ourselves using lab test-
mock finish script, and move on to
the end of Chapter Challenge
lab. See you there.